---
title: "Mongolia"
date: 2020-06-09T02:26:09+08:00
header: section-mongolia.jpg
project_image:
project_image_thumb: mongolia-th.jpg
project_image_alt: image
project_name: Ulaanbaatar Green Affordable Housing and Resilient Urban Renewal Project
approval_date: March 2018
adb_approval_date: October 2018
project_cost: $570.1 M
financing:
  - name: ADB
    amount: $80.0 M
  - name: GCF
    amount: $145.0 M [Loan - $95.0 M; Grant - $50.0 M]
  - name: ADB High Level Technology Fund 
    amount: $3.0 M
  - name: Government
    amount: $35.0 M
  - name: Others
    amount: $243.2 M
  - name: Beneficiaries
    amount: $63.9 M
impact:
  - item: 7.9 Mt CO2e avoided
  - item: 350,000 beneficiaries
  - item: 10,000 green housing units that are energy efficient, affordable, and designed to maximize the use of renewable energy.
  - item:	100 hectares of *ger* areas will be redeveloped into eco-districts that are both low-carbon and climate resilient as part of the project. 
  - item:	1.4 million people in Ulaanbaatar benefitting from reduced air pollution, further estimated to grow to 2.7 million people by 2050
references:
  - link: https://www.adb.org/projects/49169-002/main
    name: "Mongolia: Ulaanbaatar Green Affordable Housing and Resilient Urban Renewal Sector Project"
  - link: https://www.greenclimate.fund/news/ulaanbaatar-live-better-breathe-easier
    name: "A GCF project is helping Ulaanbaatar city shift to a low-emission, climate-resilient development path"
  - link: https://www.greenclimate.fund/stories/mongolia-ambition
    name: "GCF is supporting Mongolia’s ambition to pursue a low-emission future"
weight: 6
draft: false
---
Ulaanbaatar city in Mongolia is home to more than 1.4 million people. The city’s core largely comprises apartment blocks served by comprehensive utility services, including district heating, piped water supply, and wastewater collection and treatment. Surrounding the core is a vast and low-density peri-urban area (so-called *ger* areas) with poor infrastructure that serves about 60% of the city’s population. More than half of the *ger* area population live in solid structures while the remaining live in traditional *gers*. *Ger* areas have spread and expanded through successive waves of migration estimated at 25,000 per year since 2012, more than half of the city’s urban growth rate.

A lack of basic urban services affects the *ger* area residents’ health and living conditions through: (i) severe air pollution generated by unimproved individual coal stoves used by most residents during winter; (ii) poor sanitation from almost exclusive reliance on open pit latrines; (iii) poor solid waste collection; (iv) limited access to potable water (supplied by water kiosks); and (v) traffic congestion caused by an unmanaged road network. Finally, *ger* areas have a critical lack of public space, public facilities, commercial areas, and economic opportunities.

Incremental growth and migration are increasing the population living in these poor conditions because affordable housing options for low- and middle-income households are limited. The government and the Municipality of Ulaanbaatar (MUB) initiated a series of programs to increase the supply of affordable housing units, and support *ger* area redevelopment. However, a lack of viable solutions, infrastructure investment, financing support to developers, and sustainable housing financing mechanisms have resulted in these programs not delivering their expected outcomes.

Totaling $570.1 million, this eight-year sector loan project will deliver sustainable and comprehensive solutions to transform the substandard, climate-vulnerable, and heavily polluting *ger* areas of Ulaanbaatar city into affordable, low carbon, climate-resilient, and livable eco-districts. It will leverage private sector investment to deliver 10,000 affordable green housing units and redevelop 100 hectares of *ger* areas into low-carbon, climate- resilient, mixed-use, and mixed-income eco-districts.

Leveraging public-private-people partnership, the project will promote integrated design and implementation mechanisms to deliver an urban solution that is low-carbon, climate-resilient, mixed-use, mixed-income, and affordable. It also promotes effective community participation through voluntary land swapping mechanisms that provide housing solutions, and allows *ger* area residents to access basic services. Community participation will also be encouraged with activities such as skills training and livelihood improvement opportunities, and community-based urban farming.

### Paradigm Shift Potential

The project has the potential to set a new precedent on the linkage between urbanization, affordable housing, climate change, and climate risk. Below are some of the key features carried out by the project:

<ul>
<li><p>Innovative urban PPPP (Public, Private, People Partnership). The project will promote a financial and institutional integrated mechanism involving financing from public sector, beneficiaries, commercial banks, and real estate developers to deliver eco-district urban solution as a tool to redevelop substandard urban areas.</p></li>


<li>Innovative climate finance to:
  <ul>
    <li>
    <p>Implement a financial intermediary component, with revolving mechanism, to leverage private sector resources and support affordable green housing units (both supply and demand). On the supply side, the loan proceeds will be provided through commercial banks as medium-term loans to selected private developers which will be blended with the developers’ equities and commercial bank loans. On the demand side, the loan proceeds will be provided as low-cost long-term mortgages to homebuyers to purchase the affordable and market rate housing units.</p>
    </li>
    <li><p>Establish a Green Building facility that will provide performance-based grants to qualified private developers for climate change mitigation and adaptation features such as passive housing design, extra isolation system, and heating regulation system. The aim is to bring down the energy consumption for heating to 151 kWh/m2 per year from 395 kWh/m2 per year, for a total reduction of 229,436,128 kWh thermal energy input.</p></li>
    <li><p>Promote renewable energy by delivering 71,000 m2 of 11MW solar PV on rooftop, that will generate 15.6 GWh per year.</p></li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>

Smart renewable energy and building performance control and monitoring system will establish an energy performance monitoring system, install and provide initial O&M for solar PV, pilot small-scale grid lithium-ion battery storage plant, and pilot management contract for solar panel operation and maintenance.

</li>
<li>

Urban Farming to introduce urban greenhouses in the eco-district that will increase revenues from vegetable and fruit growing, and establish a cooperative of urban farmers and vegetable producers.

</li>

<li>

Innovative Voluntary Land Swapping Mechanism that will provide housing solution to all residents for in-situ redevelopment, and through which the *ger* area population can move up to more climate-resilient, low-carbon, and modern apartment buildings.

</li>
</ul>